[Music]
okay so let's get going so today's thing
i will just again restart with the
github introduction
uh and of course i'm not going to go
through every detail but i will tell you
most important steps and then we will
invite one of your classmates i think
jay janme is
keen and we will ask him to come over
and we will have two exercises done
today as demo and that should then
clarify most for most of you what we are
up to okay so
so before we call
jeremy j i would
have
uh the
brief intro
okay
uh
yes so brief intro of
github so so what are we going to do in
that
so we have
the steps as follows
the
first thing
we are going to do is uh
getting your account on github.com of
course as i told you we don't need
compulsorily uh to use git concept but
it's a good idea and and i encourage you
to use github.com so
so you should get your account
on
created on github.com first
and then you should also
configure
two factor authentication
on it
and which also means that maybe you can
install a microsoft
authenticator
app on your mobile so that will help you
i mean it's a good thing actually to
have
and then every time you open the app
there is a
six digit number that comes which you
enter in the site then you login so
basically that you basically
check so that you know
practice
to log into the github.com
uh using two-factor authentication
as a
habit okay so because after uh 11th of
august we cannot log in there directly
with the
password alone okay so that's something
that you need to do that's the first
thing okay
so i would say here i would call this as
you know
i would say you know maybe
intro
to github that's the first steps the
second set of steps are basically
uh
are about you know
repositories okay so we will first have
that
creating your own
repository as a first activity that's
important so for that what we do is
of course
create a
private repository
okay and then
get yourself
a
personal access token
to use with this
and then
clone it
on your computer
and then
configure the
folder
um
using
git init
okay
and of course i'll have this on on the
front and then we will go through the
steps as we do so i'm just telling you
so so we create a private repository we
get we have access token obtained and
kept it safe so that we can use it by
logging in etc we clone the
repo so what i am saying clone i would
say clone it clone it means what clone
the repo on your
computer configure the fold folder
for
with using git image
okay and i would say
tell
git about yourself so i would say
that you would tell
by telling git config basically
and then
configure the remote so you would write
a git
remote add blah blah blah okay and then
uh you would you know
change some files if you wish
and then
you would have that to be committed so
you need to say
you know
stage them
to be
ready
to
send to remote
using
git add
and then of course
commit the changes using
git commit
and then
the changes
using hit push
so this is the uh sequence of steps by
which we have
we can create a own repository make some
changes and actually see those changes
on
the server now after that of course
there are some more steps then the next
step is
working with
branches okay
so working
branches and that for that we again have
the steps okay so
create a
new branch
for a repo you are already working
okay then i would say
check out
the
branch
and
all
changes are now
to the branch
okay and at some time when you are done
with the branch you can say
master branch
with the master or main
okay so that that process is something
that i can illustrate here using a
sketch
okay i'm done with this so
okay
so we can say that you have got main and
then
some changes are done
and normally
you would proceed in that manner but you
can actually have a branch
and then have those
changes made and then work and
then you can come back and merge so this
process
is merged process this task is branch
and in between of course others may also
do some branching and merging we will
talk about that how to resolve if there
is any conflict but this is an activity
that we do so you can think of
you you can think of this as like you
know
the main or master branch and then you
have got some any user name and then you
can
work and then
branch merge it and again you can repeat
that activity by you know doing it again
and again so the concept of a branch is
something that we will try right away
okay we will work on that so once we
have learnt how to do that
working with branches then i would say
in terms of knowledge
we are ready to say
working
i was not working i would say
you think
others repositories okay so there of
course we are going to contribute
by these steps where we can say
fork
their vapor
sorry
okay
create
your branch
make some changes to your
branch and push those to the
server
and then
on the remote server
compare
and
create
good a
okay so this is
something that we do and of course this
is one activity of course then other
activity would be basically allowing
contributors
to
check in okay and that is where
basically we say okay look at
full requests
and
approve them
and sometimes you have to do resolve any
conflicts in some files
okay so these are the various now i
would say with this by and large we are
done okay so if you can
work on these steps
all of these steps if you know how to do
you are you are ready to go okay so
let me just save this fellow
of course i will i'll share this thing
across so we will practice okay so ah
just before we uh have the volunteer i
just want to tell you saying the buddy
these are all you know steps that you
may take few days to finish that's not a
problem
and of course our video is recorded so
you can always go back and see what was
that guy doing when we said he is going
to do so and so activity you can always
look it up and of course there is a set
of you know tutorials in github.com
itself where you can look up and youtube
has plenty of resources so there is
enough help but of course we are our own
class also is a help for you ready but
these are the steps i want you to know
because this is sufficient for the uh
for for a long time for you to use
github.com okay so let us go ahead and
start doing it i have this in in front
of me and i will actually
go through these steps as we go along so
let us have uh
one of the volunteers i think
jenna maggie wanted to help with
his time on this so we may have
him present in screen and then
we will go ahead and see how it works
so the the person who hasn't done much
only is
good because
we want to see how it works
okay so you can share the screen jeremy
yes
okay so so uh
so for this session don't worry so much
about passwords and all that you know i
mean we don't have to worry okay so
go ahead and
open it open github
github.com
okay so log off because i want it to
start from scratch
all right so okay now you can log in
so normally once you
present that login screen
so you have put some
id email id is possible and also
username one of the two is sufficient
and you can give a password
so it appears that you have not
configured the two-factor authentication
that is good because now we can show
others how to do that okay so go to the
top right corner and press that icon
top right corner
you have got this icon yeah so come down
and settings
okay on the left ah yeah that's fine
settings and the left hand side account
security is there one of the items i
think the fourth one
account security
yeah now uh there is a green button
which says enable to factor
authentication click on it enable it
okay uh you can hide this google map
thing uh stop sharing hide that click on
that hide thing
there's a pop-up
meet.google.com is sharing your screen
that that pop-up hide it yeah good now
now uh you have two ways of doing it so
if you have your phone ready you can do
it or you can configure with sms that's
that's fine just do one of them no
problem okay so continue
and you have to give your phone number
of and the country code is first
don't don't miss that out go and first
change the country code to india
okay after that you give the phone
number
yes
now it is asking you to you know first
of all confirm the phone number whether
you have it or not so ask it to send the
authentication code
okay and it would have sent something in
the sms so you can type that in
don't worry it's all one time use so if
others look at it doesn't matter
of course they if they click before you
click that's the only problem but i
don't think
you know somebody's following you so
closely behind your heels
okay so enter the thing and
confirm okay sms might have come already
or
so this is one of the reasons why i
chose to use the app
because the app there's no delay
okay
yeah continue and see
you might have not given it properly
maybe
good now these codes are something you
should save so just download just click
on the download button so this is
basically sometimes if you happen to
lose your phone
and therefore you are unable to get in
then these codes will help you for
recovering so it's a good idea to keep
them that's fine okay now having saved
it okay you can say i have saved my
recovery codes click on that button and
that means that basically your two
factor authentication has been activated
done
okay so there is some celebration you
know things on the background that's
happy sign so you can click on done and
then you are
yeah now your two factor authentication
is set up okay so so you can log out and
try to log in now
see what happens
okay so if you if you log in of course
you give the same password only thing is
that when you click on sign in it won't
go in it will actually you know pop in
one more it will ask one more okay and
this code is what you are supposed to
enter
seeing your phone
okay so they just sent an sms you enter
the sms code
otp basically
and then once it verifies
you will be allowed to get in
so sometimes sms delivery
may
take some time
for
things to work out
so so so it's a good idea to use the
microsoft authenticator app okay that's
a suggestion only but okay you are in
now so this is the first step we have
done okay so the intro to github you
have done now the next step is to create
your own repository so we will do that
okay so what we do is click click on
that new button yes
okay and
so you can then give any name so you may
give a name uh again you know there are
same name multiple reports don't do that
okay so don't do that you can just you
know give something else let us say 13th
july or something
okay
13th july okay no no no don't don't give
any gaps
it may accept but it's a pain for us to
later on do some
url etc so you just give it such a way
that there's no special character at all
sat in july that's fine okay description
you write some description right right
right because i want you to do it
properly so you can say
a demo
repo
for us to practice
okay and the very first repo of course
it's uh don't have to make it
public it's it's you can you can make it
private also
you should learn to make it private
obviously because
you need to also tell
okay so this is fine private is fine add
a redmi file
okay and
license also you can choose some click
on that button and then it will show you
some licenses that are there so you can
click a license you can choose something
like
you know gnu public license version 3.0
that is the license which is for linux
and therefore it's a good idea to do it
okay create the repository
okay now this this repo is ready and now
you need to clone it now there is a
difference from yesterday and today
yesterday
our colleague
has created a public repo so to clone it
you didn't require to authenticate but
for you you need to authenticate even to
clone it to your own computer and
therefore you need a personal access
token so go ahead and pick it up first
okay so so uh click on that yeah and
come down to settings and on the left
hand side
uh
developer settings
and
personal access token yes
okay and
you can give the token name same as the
repo so 13th of july so you understand
it is meant for that particular app okay
and click on that yeah copy copy it and
save it to a file called p80.txt
so that you know
when you are initially learning how to
use it it's a good idea to
have that stored so so open a text file
and save that okay click on that button
it will copy
and in a text file you can save it
okay you have saved it
p80.txt for example
okay
don't say touch because touch is only
going to create an empty file so you
have to say va so that you can actually
enter it nano or nano nano let us say
okay va that's fine press i after that
you can
uh paste it
okay and then save it
and you can actually add one more line
above to tell what what is it for
basically so that uh press capital o it
will go to the line above create a new
line above press escape press escape
capital o will press oh you edited it oh
no no no no no no no no delete the whole
line
and paste the code again
okay because you don't know what change
you would have done so okay yeah now sk
press escape and press capital o
now you can write 13th of july because
that's
something that is a reminder for you for
which repo you have kept this and
and of course you should also
not
forget to remove it later on okay
so so this is done okay save it
now what you do is earlier in
yesterday's class i have cloned and then
it came to a directory so therefore
there was no issue so in this case we
need to also you know do that and when
you are trying to do git clone it should
crib and it should ask you
authentication so let us go ahead and do
that so git clone and then you need
cloning
okay and space and give the url
okay and the url would be the
url of that particular not the tokens go
to the repo
so click click on the top right
yeah so that one is the id followed by
dot git
okay
so
paste it
dot git no no no without space ah dot
kit
yeah now now if you try to clone it
would ask username password which was
not the case yesterday because that was
public now of course it is a private
okay now wait wait wait uh now you need
the password to be pasted so so which
means that
i mean you don't have it readily with
you right so put a ctrl c cancel the
process
put a ctrl c
or just press enter it will crib that is
not authenticated that's not a problem
just press enter
okay now now cat cat the p80.txt so that
it is there on the screen for you to
copy paste
okay i'm just giving you some tips so
that you can do it right again now you
can okay yeah and you now give the
username password
now for the password you don't give the
password of your account you give this
code okay yes
for you to copy paste
enter
uh
omega constant
13 dh
dot
git you have to find why you have not
found it
uh so you need to just go and
omega is capital in this username i
guess
oh yeah yeah you forgot to put the first
letter capital
or or it was supposed to be
so i don't know which was your original
name so you have to give whatever is
yeah so i mean if the url has capital o
it means that your username has capital
o
okay so check that out once go to the
site and check what was your spelling
what was your username and what was your
so username has a capital o of course
okay and wait wait wait uh what you do
what you do wait wait wait on the right
hand side in the site there's a download
there's a
button a green button is there
not not that corner
beside add file there is a green button
code it says code
no no no just calm down ah yeah so there
you click on that to drop down
and it has a url that you copy yes
okay that may help you because it may
have some
thing that you would have
missed out
so
check that out now ah again don't don't
clear the screen you have lost the
password now again so you have to put
cat okay yeah yeah
fine now you can try to do git clone and
see what happens
just if you if you double click on that
string it will get copied usually
if it is a linux machine and you can use
the middle button to paste typically so
that you don't need to you know spend
too much
time to do that
okay
so i am surprised what was the problem
uh i will see what you can do but i
don't want you to again spend too much
time so go back and make it public so
that at least you can get started
okay because i i
know what was going wrong for you so go
to that repose
click on your id
make it public click on it
yeah setting settings you can do it
settings also
or you can do it in clicking on your
username also
manage access
yes
there's a link called manage
so there you can make it uh
public yeah so that at least you can get
started now
so that was some way of confirming
yeah
all right now go back and then try the
same thing now
and of course it will clone without
authentication so that at least you get
started
all right so it has come so you can now
go to the directory
yes and now
put ls and check that there will be two
files
so there is one for ls minus l okay
there's a license file in the readme
file okay both of them are there the
license file is same as the license for
the gnu which you don't have to worry
readme is what you have kept and you can
just put cat readme dot md to check what
has
been entered normally it will contain
the name of the repo itself
as a serial okay so so what you do now
you need to initialize this so you can
first say git init
git space in it
okay and therefore you have got that
initialized so we know what is there in
the content of dot git so we don't need
to worry about
and then uh
you need to uh
config also git config
okay and you have to tell some names so
you can say git config
minus minus global
and user dot name
and then in uh
give a space and then give in quotations
your username
okay same way you also configure the
email
user.email yeah
okay now ah now you have got configured
so
we now need to tell
what is the remote location it should be
basically talking to so we have to do
that git remote add
add and then you have to give a nickname
so you can say master maybe
okay and then give the url so the url is
same as the dot git that url is there
okay so https up to git that part
okay so now that git has been told what
you can do is you can now start doing
some changes so go ahead and edit the
readme dot file so so that you have some
changes being done on that
okay so add a line below
which will tell you that you have done
something from here
okay you can say
say okay
add something write something
i am editing this from my pc something
like that
because you are doing it only from your
terminal you are not doing it on the
side so which means that
you have done the changes from your
computer okay
yeah now save it and come out
now ah because
you have already done git init once it
actually knows the initial status and it
has now also seen that the file has
changed so it will understand that there
was something that changed so
there's no there's nothing wrong in
running this git status command again
and again you know how many times you
run doesn't matter so you can just run
it every now and then just to check what
is going on so git status
so it understands
uh
that you just want to know what is
happening so it will tell you whatever
is happening so you can see that
right now uh
you got a file that has been modified
and it has to be you know
going back to the server so you need to
do that so what you do is first you have
you have to stage it for the
pushing so you say git add
okay git add
and then
capital r
don't put dot
don't don't don't because make it a
habit to specifically add those files so
capital r and put a tab it will fill it
yeah enter
now git status again to check have you
added enough
see why i am telling you to say git add
and then file name is because
so sometimes when you are working on lot
of files it's not as if you want to push
everything immediately to the server you
want to push only some of them and
remaining you want to push later so so
if you say git add dot it will push
everything to the server which you may
not want to so that's why i was just
telling you not to do that make it a
habit to add files specifically now you
have only staged it for pushing but you
are not told
what is this going to be commented with
so git commit minus m
git commit
minus m and then you should give a
remark as to what you are doing with
that particular
pushing so you can say it can commit
minus m
okay git commit minus m
and then in quotes you give some comment
saying that okay
minor edit something like that
um
uh maybe jeremy j is unable to hear me
perhaps
network problem
okay you've done that good okay now
yeah so i i could not see some of the
activity because i i typed something in
the text and it did not come either so
so i think there was a network issue
doesn't matter
okay so so you can now go back to the
now you can just type git status again
to see what has happened you know it
will tell you what has happened
okay git status
okay so you see you see that okay you
you are done and you know
some changes have been pushed and
nothing to commit working tree is clean
that means that you know there's nothing
pending that has to be sent out and all
that okay so go ahead and then now see
on the server uh what has changed
okay what is there on the server
so github.com website if you go and look
at the
page you refresh the page and see what
happens
so what happened because you have
not yet
sent it is it push we have not done push
yet right
you go back to the terminal you have not
done push it yet yeah do please do that
push after git commit minus m you have
to do push git push
okay now while when you do git push it
will ask for user name and password so
be ready to pick it up
okay so if you want to
yeah if you want to copy paste it from
somewhere have it ready
so you have got a problem with your
authentication
your personal access token is actually
not working basically
right so what you do is you just dump it
and pick a new one
so even i am facing the same the same
error like what janma jf is yes yes so
your p8 is not working whatever p8 you
have had it dump it and get a new one
okay
okay delete it and
yeah create a new one
copy that
okay and maybe save it to some place
no no no just overwrite it because don't
keep the old ones
just dump it the old one just dump it
just type
no double q just queue
okay just go to va path dot text and
delete whatever was there
okay yeah that's a new file no problem
gonna paste it here no have it have it
accessible to you
okay and press o escape and press o
okay yeah so you you know what was it
for basically
okay some way by which you you identify
when back in the data
it's okay
fine so so you come out and then have
that saved and
so that you just simply copy paste it
okay so you can try to push it again now
so it has authenticated and it has
pushed so it was a problem of somewhere
some copy paste some edit something
happen
okay so so you you have now successfully
pushed it so the data has gone to the
server now you put status
git status
so it will tell that earlier it was
saying that you are one step ahead of
the master now it will not tell that so
it will tell that you have done of
course you have done a mistake of
creating those two files here so i i
normally keep it in some other location
so please
do one thing git
rm git rm
okay pat dot wait wait wait wait don't
do that
uh
move the files to one directory above
mv pad dot text dot dot
okay and do that with the other cell
also so that you don't lose the files
unnecessarily
and now
again type git status
okay so there's nothing here nothing to
work so nothing to worry now that's fine
okay now you can go back to the server
and see what has happened
go to the browser
okay and
open your repo
don't do back back back buttons
generally uh make it a habit to go and
you know
click on your icon on the top right and
okay
and go to repository that's a good habit
okay don't use back buttons generally as
far as possible because
it does have a with some forms
okay you can see that the line that you
have added has come
right
so so now it is done okay so which means
that you can edit the files and it can
come to the server okay now this is fine
this is not
you know a big progress but it's it's
reasonable now the next step is to
actually do some branching and merging
okay so we will do that go to the
terminal
okay so what you do is type git branch
and see where you are what what branch
you are
okay so you are in the main branch okay
now what you do is
you can say git branch and then give a
space
okay and then you give a name for the
branch you can say
okay
you can say
some some name okay
okay
just type sub panda or something like
that
some other name so that it's it's
something very distinctly you know
something that you have created now okay
so enter
and
and now uh git checkout
okay and you can see what what you can
uh you can make out what are
what what branches are available for you
okay enter and then see what happens
okay so so you can now it is you are
actually uh you know linked with the
main branch now so you can actually
check out the other branch so you can
say uh git
checkout and then put the branch name
now panda
okay now put again
okay git status
okay so it it now knows that you are on
the branch panda okay you are not on the
main you are on the panda branch okay
now what you do is that you go ahead and
edit that file again
add one more line
okay vi readme dot md
okay now you write one line below you
write saying
this line is from the branch
panda
okay so distinctly we understand that we
have done some change from a different
branch okay just a silly way of keeping
track
okay so come out of it
now now you need to
push it so push this
branch
okay
so so we need to uh
so you can you can see what would happen
if if you want to do that okay so
of course you have to do all those you
know
git add and then
okay git commit minus m all of that you
have to do
so there is a talk i need to attend at
six o'clock and i need to join a bit
ahead five minutes ahead so i will close
shortly and i will continue in the next
session so don't worry uh because
there's a there's a
demonstration of a software that is
being happening so so we will stop in a
moment okay in a few minutes and we will
continue from where we left
okay and i request jen mayjay also to
sort of help me by
being volunteer
till we finish this
okay so so yeah do go ahead and push it
and see what happens
okay so so it is pushing to what you
know
so
there is no upstream branch called panda
right so therefore you have to set it
and you can do that command to do that
okay
because there must be a branch on the
remote location also for you to do that
so it is requiring that to be created
basically
so you have got that password somewhere
so
so you should always cat it to some
files and then
use it up
so you can open it you can open a
terminal no no you can open a terminal
its there right you have
you have it in
pad dot text somewhere yeah
so that's why i say you keep only one so
that you have your conclusion
particularly when you're learning if you
if you have too many things hanging
around
you don't know what is the problem you
know problem is because of a wrong key
or some wrong command
okay so now you have got this
pushed so you can go back now
okay
so now you can see refresh this page
you can see that there are two branches
right
okay there are two branches so you can
now see that the readme.md is coming is
from the main branch so change the
branch before this beside that two
branches there is a button so change the
branch to panda
okay and then you see that from that
branch there is another version of it so
now you can see that there are two
versions that have been kept
right
okay now uh one of the things that we
need to
learn to do is uh at some point when you
are working with a branch you want to
say that okay i now i am done with this
branch so therefore i want to merge it
okay so so that is something that we can
actually do it from the command prompt
okay and go do that from the command
prompt by type typing git merge
okay and see what happens what is what
does it tell you what help does it tell
you
okay so so you need to basically merge
you know the the
panda branch with the main branch
okay
okay so you can tell
git much and tell the branch with which
you would like to merge
okay good check out and see where you
are
okay so check out and be on on main
git second
main
okay and run the command again to check
where you are don't create minus b means
it will create that branch don't create
it it's already there
okay minus b is for creating it and all
that okay so you have now switched to
the main branch of course now you need
to merge
and what you want to merge you have to
tell no you have to merge
okay so it's done okay now you can see
that you have merged and this will
reflect on the screen and you can go to
the browser and see what happens
okay refresh the screen
now you see that
go to the main branch
now you refresh that
okay wait wait wait no you have done a
push request so there is a button there
on the top right compare and pull
request
yeah
click on that
so it it it it
does check whether the files can be
merged or not and all that so create
that
okay
bottom there's a create pull request
okay come it'll it'll verify it'll check
and then go and say merge yeah now go
ahead and merge now confirm it
okay now you can see that
go to the uh
screen 13 july if you click on it
now you see that
it has come there right on the main
branch
okay so what we what is happening is
basically that
you have you have
merged
the contents
and
on your on your local machine and also
on the remote machine
and the remote machine has certain
workflow that is it is actually checking
uh the differences between the two
versions and whether there is any
conflict conflict in terms of when was
the change done in terms of timestamp
versus what was the content so if what
you are going to merge is newer
then there is no problem if both of them
have changed then there is a conflict
and that has to be resolved we will look
at it in the next class but for now what
has happened is that whenever you
compare there was no problem of merging
so it allowed you to go ahead and merge
it and that is usually the scenario when
very few people are working because they
have a way of working around in that now
what you can do is you can delete the
other branch okay so you can click on
the branches two branches is there
okay click on the two branches now you
can actually delete that panda okay
because you you have merged it so you
don't have to have it
okay
and and now you you can
go to your repo and it says that there's
only one branch and there's a main
branch okay so this is what we do
normally that is we
have some activity we create it on a
branch because we don't want to disturb
the original code and then after we are
convinced that it is working fine we
will merge it and then after that we
basically drop that branch because we no
longer need it okay so this is something
that we'll continuously keep on doing
there will be branches that will be
created and merged created and merged
created and merged that's a part of the
coding cycle and that's what we have
basically learnt okay